so a few years ago I heard an
interesting rumor
apparently the head of a large pet food
company would go into the annual
shareholders meeting with a can of dog
food and he would eat the can of dog
food and this was his way of convincing
them that if it was good enough for him
it was good enough for their pets this
strategy is now known as dog fooding and
it's a common strategy in the business
world doesn't mean everyone goes in and
eats dog food but business people will
use their own products to demonstrate
that they feel that they're confident in
them now this is a widespread practice
but I think what's really interesting is
when you find exceptions to this rule
when you find cases of businesses or
people in businesses who don't use their
own products turns out there's one
industry where this happens in a common
way a pretty regular way and that is the
screen based tech industry so in 2010
Steve Jobs when he was releasing the
iPad described the iPad as a device that
was extraordinary the best browsing
experience you ever had way better than
a laptop way better than a smartphone
it's an incredible experience now a
couple of months later he was approached
by a journalist from the New York Times
and they had a long phone call and at
the end of the call the journalists
threw in a question that seemed like a
sort of soft ball he said to him your
kids must love the iPad and there's an
obvious answer to this but what job said
really staggered the journalist he was
very surprised because he said they
haven't used it we limit how much
technology our kids use at home that's
it this is a very common thing in the
tech world in fact there's a school in
quite near Silicon Valley called the
walled off school of the peninsula and
they'd only introduce screens until the
eighth grade now what's really
interesting about the school is that 75%
of the kids who go there have parents
who are high-level Silicon Valley tech
execs so when I heard about this I
thought it was interesting and
surprising and it pushed me to consider
what screens were doing to me and to my
family and the people I loved and to
people at large and so for the last five
years as a professor of business and
psychology I've been studying the
effective screens on our lives and I
want to start by just focusing on how
much time they they take from us and
then we can talk about what that time
looks like so what I'm showing you here
is the average 24 hour work day at three
different points in history 2007 10
years ago 2015 and then data that I
collected actually only last week and a
lot of things haven't changed all that
much
so we sleep roughly seven and a half to
eight hours a day some people say that's
decline slightly but it hasn't changed
much we work eight and a half to nine
hours a day we engage in survival
activities these are things like eating
and bathing and looking after kids about
three hours a day and that leaves this
white space that's our personal time
that space is incredibly important to us
that's the space where we do things that
make us individuals that's where hobbies
happen where we have close relationships
where we really think about our lives
where we get creative where we zoom back
and try to work out whether our lives
have been meaningful and of course we
get some of that from work as well but
when people look back on their lives and
I wonder what their lives have been like
at the end of their lives
you look at the last things they say
they are talking about those moments
that happen in that white personal space
so it's sacred it's important to us now
what I'm going to do is show you how
much of that space is taken up by
screens across time in 2007 this much
that was the year Apple introduced the
first iPhone eight years later
this much now this much that's how much
time we spend of that free time in front
of our screens this yellow area this
thin sliver is where the magic happens
that's where your humanity lives and
right now it's in a very small box so
what do we do about this well the first
question is what does that red space
look like now of course screens are
miraculous in a lot of ways I live in
New York my lot of my family lives in
Australia and I have a one-year-old son
and the way I've been able to introduce
them to him is with screens I couldn't
have done that 15 or 20 years ago in
quite the same way so there's a lot of
good that comes from them one thing you
can do is you can ask yourself what goes
on during that time how enriching are
the apps that we're using and some are
enriching if you stop people while they
use
and say tell us how do you feel right
now they say they feel pretty good about
these apps those that focus on
relaxation exercise whether reading
education and health they spend an
average of nine minutes a day on each of
these these apps make them much less
happy about half the people when you
interrupt them and say how do you feel
say they don't feel good about using
them now what's interesting about these
dating social networking gaming
entertainment news web browsing people
spend 27 minutes a day on each of these
we're spending three times longer on the
apps that don't make us happy that
doesn't seem very wise now one of the
reasons we spend so much time on these
apps that make us unhappy is they rob us
of stopping cues stopping cues were
everywhere in the 20th century they were
baked into everything we did as stopping
queue is basically a signal that it's
time to move on to do something new to
do something different and think about
newspapers eventually you get to the end
you fold the newspaper away you put it
aside the same with magazines books you
get to the end of a chapter prompts you
to consider whether you want to continue
you watched a show on TV
eventually the show would end and then
you'd have a week until the next one
came so they were stopping cues
everywhere but the way we consume media
today is such that there are no stopping
cues the news feed just rolls on and
everything's bottomless Twitter Facebook
Instagram
email text messaging the news and when
you do check all sorts of other sources
you can just keep going on and on and on
so we can get a cue about what to do
from Western Europe where they seem to
have a number of pretty good ideas in
the workplace here's one example this is
a Dutch design firm and what they've
done is they've rigged the desks to the
ceiling and at 6:00 p.m. every day it
doesn't matter who you're emailing or
what you're doing the desks rise to the
ceiling
four days a week the space turns into a
yoga studio one day a week into a dance
club it's really up to you
which ones you stick around for but this
is a great stopping rule because it
means that at the end of the day
everything stops there's no way to work
at Daimler the German car company
they've got another great strategy when
you go on vacation instead of saying
this person's on vacation they'll get
back to you eventually they say this
person's on vacation so we've deleted
your email this person will never see
the email you just sent you can email
back in a couple of weeks or you can
email someone else and so you can
imagine what that's like you go on
vacation and you're actually on vacation
the people who work at this company feel
that they actually get a break from work
but of course that doesn't tell us much
about what we should do at home in our
own lives and so I want to make some
suggestions you know it's easy to say
between say five and six pm I'm gonna
not use my phone the problem is five and
six pm looks different on different days
I think a far better strategy is to say
I do certain things every day there are
certain occasions that happen every day
like eating dinner sometimes I'll be
alone sometimes with other people
sometimes in a restaurant sometimes at
home but the rule that I've adopted is I
will never use my phone at the table
it's far away as far away as possible
because we're really bad at resisting
temptation but when you have a stopping
queue that everytime dinner begins my
phone goes far away you avoid temptation
altogether at first it hurts
I had massive FOMO I struggled but what
happens is you get used to it you get
you overcome the withdrawal the same way
you would from a drug and what happens
is life becomes more colorful richer
more interesting you have better
conversations you really connect with
the people who are there with you I
think it's a fantastic strategy and we
know it works because when people do
this and I've tracked a whole lot of
people who have tried this it expands
they feel so good about it that they
start doing it for the first hour of the
day in the morning they start putting
their phones on airplane mode on the
weekend that way your phone remains a
camera but it's no longer a phone so
really powerful
and we know people feel much better
about their lives when they do this so
what's the take-home here you know it
screens are miraculous I've already said
that and I feel that it's true but the
way we use them is a lot like driving
down a really fast long road and you're
in a car where the accelerator is mashed
to the floor it's kind of hard to reach
the brake pedal and you've got a choice
you can either glide bypassed say the
beautiful ocean scenes and take snaps
out the window and that's the easy thing
to do
or you can go out of your way to move
the car down the side of the road to
push that brake pedal to get out take
off your shoes and socks take a couple
of steps onto the sand feel what the
sound feels like under your feet walk to
the ocean and let the ocean lap at your
ankles your life will be richer and more
meaningful because you breathe in that
experience and because you've left your
phone in the car thank you
[Applause]